# Current Weather
#### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=olwSbXQqu20&ab_channel=MohammadAmarneh
#### Desription:
    This project utilizes a freely provided weather API from https://openweathermap.org/. And through the use of CSS JavaScript and HTML, it allows you to enter a city name and receive the current temperature, conditions, humidity, and wind speed. This API was completely put together through the use of VS Code on a Windows machine.

    The HTML for this web application formats the information seen when the website is being used. This information is the temperature, conditions, humidity, and wind speed as well as buttons that were used to search and switch units. These buttons were provided by the react icons extension in VS Code. Additionally, the provided font used (sans-serif) was taken from Google's provided API for fonts and referenced in the HTML. The HTML also uses an image from the open weather map API to provide the conditions of the city being searched for. The HTML also allows for compatibility with multiple devices using the device width for scale, so this application works outside of just desktop uses.

    The CSS file in this project formatted most of the HMTL into a "card" that carries the data provided by the website. In this "card" lays a search bar, search button, relevant weather data, and buttons for conversions between imperial and metric units.  The "card" was formatted to be in the center of the page and to be slightly transparent to allow for the background to show through. Other aesthetic modifications had also been done in the CSS file such as a change in the color of any button if the user hovers over that respective button. This was also paired with a transition between the hovered stated and normal state so that the button color fades in and out between hover states, making the interface feel more fluid. The background image had been taken from https://source.unsplash.com/1920x1080/? and concatenated to the end of it was the city entered into the search to provide an image from the provided city.

    The script for this project involved the creation of an object (weather) that contained a fetch weather function, taking the city and the units selected as inputs, and using those inputs to modify the URL given by the API to request information, inputting the correct city and unit into the URL. This object had also defined the API key to use in the URL in order to provide the necessary information from the API provider. Additionally in this object was the display function which took the provided information and set it as multiple constants such as name, icon, description, temp, humidity, and speed, and displayed it onto the HTML. Finally, this object has a search function taking the city requested, as well as the units requested in order to feed that information back to the fetch weather function. Outside of this object is the rest of the code needed to allow for conversions from metric to imperial and vis versa through the use of buttons on the page itself. This code consisted of two functions, "imperial" and "metric", which input their respective unit into the weather.search function, which would record the city name and send both the city name and units to the fetch weather function, inputting it into the URL, and providing the requested information.

    All of these files work together to provide a quick and fluid user experience that allows for weather search in both metric and imperial units.